# Patient-Doctor-Scheduling-Application
(WIP) Patient Scheduling System, implementing XML structured data, a Java application layer, and Java Swing GUI.

***To launch the Graphical User Interface, run the “guiSystem.java” class. The back-end of the application is complete, however the GUI is still a work in progress. The functions that currently work are adding a Patient and adding a Doctor. The XML data is synced, as well as the application layer data, “SchedulerData.java.”

This project is a Java OOP-premised scheduling system for a typical doctor's office. The application contains a three-level object-oriented architecture. For the logical relationship of a typical appointment between a Patient and a Doctor, functional objects were created. Each object contains an interface class and an implementation class. A doctor's appointment has the following objects: "Doctor", "Patient", and "Visit". The Doctor and Patient classes extend a Person object class, containing relevant information for each unique object within the classes. The Visit class is generic in it’s interface (for required getter functions), containing a “host”, “visitor”, and a Date variable “visitDate.”

For the data layer, the application begins with receiving XML structured data of Patient, Doctor, and Visit objects. The XML is structured under “Resources -> scheduling.xsd.” The XML data received is first initialized into the application layer, utilizing the classes "SchedulerXMLReadTest.java" and “SchedulerXMLReaderUtils.java”, to process the XML data into the data class "SchedulerData.java." SchedulerData is a private data class that functions as an object only within the run class, “guiSystem.java”, continuously modified while the application runs with current appointment data. SchedulerData contains Lists and Maps of the objects, having each object inclusive to their respective class, as well as linked for appointment data. The design of SchedulerData ensures time and storage efficiency of processing GUI transactions. 

Whenever a data object is created, removed, or modified, an updated XML output is written on the “scheduling.out.xml” resource class. The classes of “AddPatientGUI.java” and “AddDoctorGUI.java” create Patient and Doctor objects, ensuring that the user properly inputs information on the GUI, providing prompts for incorrect data format inputs. The Add GUI classes also work with the SchedulerData class to ensure each object is unique (non-duplicate). The XML writer classes of “SchedulerXMLWriteTest.java” and “XMLWriterUtils.java” ensure that the data layer is continuously concurrent with the application layer’s modifiable data object, SchedulerData.
